Let's now discuss what
feature transformation is.
After this video you will be able
to articulate the purpose of
feature transformation, list three
feature transformation operations, and
discuss when scaling is important.
In addition to feature selection,
data pre-processing can also
include feature transformation.
Feature transformation involves
mapping a set of values for
the feature to a new set of values to
make the representation of the data more
suitable or easier to process for
the downstream analysis.
A common feature transformation
operation is scaling.
This involves changing
the range of values for
a feature of features to
another specified range.
This is done to avoid allowing
features with large values to
dominate the analysis results.
For example, if your dataset has
both width and height as features,
the magnitude of the weight values,
which are in pounds, will be much
larger than the magnitude of the height
values which are in feet and inches.
So scaling both features
to a common value range
will make the contributions from
both weight and height equal.
One way to perform scaling is to map all
values of a feature to a specific range
such as between zero and one.
For example,
let's say you have a feature for
income that ranges from 30,000 to 100,000.
And you have another feature for years
of employment that ranges from 0 to 50.
These features have very different scales.
If you want both features to have equal
weighting when you compare the data
samples, then you can scale the range
of both features to be between 0 and 1.
That way the income feature which is
on much largest scale than the years
of employment feature will not
dominate the compares result.
Alternatively, scaling can be perform
by transforming the features such that
the results have zero mean,
and unit standard deviation.
The steps to perform the scaling
is to first calculate the mean and
standard deviation values for
the feature to be scaled.
Then for each value, for this feature,
subtract the mean value from that value,
and divide by the standard deviation.
The transformed feature will end
up with a mean value of zero, and
standard deviation of one.
This effectively removes
the units of the features and
converts each future value to number
of standard deviations from the mean.
This scaling method is used when
the min and max values are known.
This is also useful when there are
outliers which will skew the calculation
for the range as the max value is
determined by the furthest outlier.
This scaling operation is often
referred to as zero-normalization or
as standardization.
Filtering is another feature
transformation operation.
This is commonly applied to time series
data, such as speech or audio signals.
A low pass filter can be
used to filter out noise.
Which usually manifests as the high
frequency component in the signal.
A low pass filter removes components
above a certain frequency
allowing the rest to
pass through unaltered.
Filtering can also be used
to remove noise in images.
Noise in an image is random variation
in intensity or color in the pixels.
For example, a noise can cause
an image to appear grainy.
A mean or median filter can be used to
replace the pixel value with the mean or
median value of its neighboring pixels.
This has the effect of
smoothing out the image,
removing the noise that causes
the graininess in the image.
Aggregation combines values for
a feature in order to summarize data or
reduce variability.
Aggregation combines values for a feature
in order to summarize the data or
to reduce variability.
Aggregation is done by summing or
averaging data values at a higher level.
For example, hourly values can be
aggregated to the daily level.
Or values within a city region can
be aggregated to a state level.
These plots show
the results of aggregation.
The left plot shows the wind
speed values in miles per hour
averaged every 10 minutes
over a period of seven days.
Notice that there's a lot of variability,
that is the values fluctuate a lot.
The right plot shows wind speed
values averaged every hour so
every 60 minutes instead
of every 10 minutes.
Notice that the line is much smoother
here because the values are aggregated at
a higher time scale level.
So aggregation can have
the effect of removing noise
to provide a clear representation
of the structure of your data.
Another example is tracking stock prices.
Hourly deviations of a stock
may be difficult to track but,
aggregated daily changes may better reveal
any upward or downward trend of the stock.
In summary, feature transformation
involves mapping the set of values for
a feature to a new set of values to
make the representation of the data
more suitable for the downstream analysis.
Feature transformation should be used with
cautions since they change the nature of
the data and unintentionally remove some
important characteristics of the data.
So it's important to look at the effects
of the transformation you're applying
to your data to make certain that
it has the intended consequences.